For this part of the symposium, share the good news of peace.
We're going to discuss the need to take the initiative.
Now, we're going to look at why we should take the initiative,
how to take the initiative, and then concluding thought about
who's helping and directing us in our preaching work.
Now, first of all, why take the initiative?
Well, think about it.
One thing about being Jehovah's Witnesses is that we're never off duty.
We never stop being one of Jehovah's Witnesses, wherever we are, whatever we're doing.
So it isn't just that when we're out in formal preaching work with congregation group,
we are one of Jehovah's Witnesses all the time.
There's no such thing as being off duty when we're one of Jehovah's Witnesses.
Now, to give you an idea of how significant this is with informal witnessing,
let me tell you a statistic, a survey was taken some years ago,
and you'll be surprised possibly.
In one group of over 200 baptized witnesses,
now notice over 40% had been contacted by informal witnessing.
Isn't that amazing?
So the door to door is crucial, of course,
during COVID that's been inhibited,
the letter writing has its place, the phone witnessing,
but the point is there's other times where we can do some witnessing informally.
Now, let's examine how to do it,
and the best example of how to do informal witnessing is, of course, Christ Jesus.
And there's an account all of us are familiar with in the Bible book of John,
so please find John chapter 4,
and we're going to take a look at how Jesus took the initiative,
and then imitate him to do just as he did.
Now, notice here in John chapter 4,
we get the context that they've been traveling through Samaria,
and then verse 6 will read,
in fact, Jacob's well was there.
Now, Jesus tired out as he was from the journey was sitting at the well.
It was about the sixth hour.
Now, that's interesting, is it not?
See, Jesus was tired, perfect man, but human,
and his journey tired him out,
and he's there about noon sitting at the well,
and notice what happens.
And verse 7,
a woman of Samaria came to draw water.
Jesus said to her,
give me a drink.
Real simple.
Give me a drink.
Well, what did we learn from this?
As you notice, Jesus was tired.
We get tired because of being imperfect.
If a perfect man gets tired out, certainly we get tired.
Sometimes you get feeling,
maybe I could witness to this person take the initiative,
but I just don't feel like it.
I'm tired.
Not with Jesus.
See, to imitate Jesus even in a case that you're tired,
you're thinking of others,
and you want to take the opportunity to start a conversation.
That's the initial goal.
Now, notice something else here that we learn
in the ninth verse of John, chapter 4.
So the Samaritan woman said to him,
how is it that you,
despite being a Jew, ask me for a drink,
even though I am a Samaritan woman?
And then we learn more here,
parentheses for Jews,
have no dealings with Samaritan.
And it went both ways.
That's the way the prejudice was,
no dealings.
And on top of that, she's a woman.
And women were not treated very nice during that period
in man's history.
So she's a Samaritan.
She's a woman.
And Jesus asks her for a drink.
Starts a conversation with her.
Now, these are the things we learn with this.
He didn't make any assumptions about her.
And obviously new.
See, it was a woman,
and a Samaritan, a traveling through Samaritan at that time.
And he didn't refuse to speak to her because of that.
So the lesson for us there is,
don't judge people by what you see,
based on their culture,
color of their skin.
This world is filled with judges.
Where's your hooves' witnesses?
We don't do that.
We leave the judging to Jehovah in Jesus Christ.
And don't judge whether you think they'll converse with you.
That's wrong.
Jesus didn't do that.
And he set that perfect example for us.
Go ahead.
And then if you're a little nervous about it,
then we beg Jehovah for his spirit to help us,
to give us the courage to witness about
his beautiful name and purposes.
Now, he also teaches us something else interesting here.
And this is where taking the initiative,
you start a conversation,
you don't rush into things.
Now notice how you see we read verse 9,
and then they had this conversation take place
through these following verses here.
They get to verse 24 where he mentions God's spirit
and must worship him with spirit and truth.
And now here's what happens.
They had this fine conversation after simply asking for a drink.
Notice verse 25,
the woman said to him,
I know that Messiah is coming who is called Christ.
Whenever that one comes,
he will declare all things to us openly.
She spoke out of her heart.
Notice verse 26,
Jesus said to her,
I am He,
the one speaking to you.
What a moment.
And she's blessed with having the Messiah Himself speak to her.
However, give some thought.
What if Jesus rather than say,
give me a drink, start it off with,
I am the Messiah.
Give me a drink.
Don't know because Jesus had Jehovah's spirit
and heavenly wisdom.
And He entered the conversation first.
So that's what we want to keep in mind
and try to do ourselves.
They have a conversation.
It might just be speaking from your heart
and trying to engage the person.
For example,
you could be in the doctor's office waiting room.
So you speak from your heart
and you notice the person's looking at you and said,
I look forward to the day I'll never be sick again.
Well,
they could look at you and say,
well, this guy is crazy
or they could say,
well, that would be nice
or what makes you believe
either way you're starting taking the initiative
to start a conversation
and leave the rest to Jehovah.
He's the one that gets the credit
for the results.
Now, next we have a video here.
Now as you watch the following video,
notice how a sister finds
an effective way
to witness informally.
They seem nice.
I knew what Judy was thinking.
I wanted to start a conversation,
but I didn't want to bother them either.
And when an opportunity came,
I just froze.
Then I was in a rush to give a witness.
It felt forced.
It helped to hear that with all been there,
our past experiences were similar.
Whenever we didn't put pressure on ourselves
and just looked for something in common to talk about,
we could usually find a moment
when we could say something about the Bible.
She was curious why we were dressed up.
Turns out that she'd never talked
to Jehovah's Witnesses before.
So how we appreciated how she took the initiative.
Of course, you see the contrast there
that at one point she froze.
So it is stressful,
no doubt about it,
or only human.
But then she rushed into things,
running after it with the track.
See, give us some thought.
Try to have the conversation,
then let the spirit move it,
and that would be imitating Jesus.
Then it can move into getting
into the spiritual purpose
of initiating the conversation.
So good example.
Give it a try, brothers and sisters,
and let Jehovah bless your efforts.
Now, to conclude,
I think to want to share this beautiful thought,
when it comes to this work we're engaging in
and sharing the good news of peace
by taking the initiative,
never forget this.
And you know it, but it's a good reminder,
Revelation chapter 14.
And here in the Revelation,
familiar to most of you listening
in verse 6,
let's read it.
And I saw another angel flying in mid-Heaven,
and he had ever lasting good news to declare
to those who dwell on the earth,
to every nation and tribe,
and tongue and people.
Now, this is profound.
Obviously, angel flying in mid-Heaven,
the footnote helps us
where it's overhead,
where the birds fly.
You see them and see
another angel in mid-Heaven.
That's how close they are.
And this is something you want to meditate on.
Personally, when I was in the traveling work,
sometimes I'd be working with one of the brothers
or one of the sisters,
and they had opposition
and some of the territories we'd work,
and I could tell they were feeling the stress,
and I know it was the reaction
of some of these householders.
So what I used to enjoy doing
and they appreciated after they realized
what I was doing.
We'd be walking along,
and then I'd just stop,
and I'd look up,
and I'd say,
you see them?
And they're like,
who?
You're right up there above the trees,
and they'd look at me,
and our circuit overseers lost it.
But I said, see,
and we'll tell them about Revelation 146.
When we're in the preaching work,
whether it's informal,
or out there,
formally door to door,
the angels are the real reapers.
At least one is nearby.
What a profound thought.
They are the real harvesters.
They are the ones directing us
or the rightly disposed people.
Don't ever forget that.
When it comes to being ready
to share the good news of peace,
you go ahead and take the initiative
to start conversations.
You'll have valuable opportunities
to share the good news of peace.
Brother Gary Brow,
a helper to the Service Committee,
will now present the next talk of this symposium.
Be ready to share the good news of peace.
Follow-up on interest.